# WIRED 2025 Nathaniel Fargo Abstract
Spread Spectrum Time Domain Reflectrometry, or SSTDR, has been proven as a reliable method for impedance measurement and fault detection in aircraft wiring, photovoltaics, and electrical wiring. Our research focuses on applications and feasibility of SSTDR applications for monitoring faults in power grids. This technology could significantly improve fault detection in a variety of situations—including wind/solar farms, electrical power grids, and both energized and de-energized networks. The purpose of this research is to test SSTDR as a vialble solutiont and discover its limits and capabilities in power fault applications. To validate that SSTDR signals are suitable for power systems we took measurements on circuits containing a single conductor over a ground plane, which more commonly reflects various power systems. We observed the expected shifts in velocity of propogation and impedance, while also receiving strong signal reflections. In the field of branching networks, such as power grids, we analyzed the detectability of impedance changes as the SSTDR signal travels through branching networks. The results showed observable differences at least 18 branches deep into a BNC network. The current focus of our research is developing ML models that can take in an SSTDR waveform and diagnose the impedance changes along both branching and non-branching networks. Knowing these impedance changes and their locations would allow easy detection of faults and anomalies within critical infrastructure, especially after power systems failure.  